	Capital Bike-share is a bike-sharing service owned by the government of Washington DC in partnership with Motivate International (1). The service is used as an alternative to automotive transportation around the city, and aims to increase the health of the population while simultaneously reducing traffic levels. A service this widely used certainly needs frequent maintenance, but maintenance cannot be done at the drop of a hat. The maintenance must be scheduled days, or even weeks, ahead of time. The city is then faced with the problem of determining when to schedule maintenance on these bikes. The answer seems simple at first, simply schedule the maintenance for the date and time with the lowest usage statistics. However, as we can see in the data there are many factors that contribute to daily usage statistics including: Day of the week, time of day, season, weather condition, holidays, and the list goes on. Our goal is to analyze the data and provide a solution that the city of Washington DC can use to improve their bike sharing service, as properly scheduled maintenance will increase service up-time.

	We will acquire the data through the UCI Machine Learning Repository. (Specifically at this URL: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/bike+sharing+dataset) The data set is fairly clean and manageable, making it an excellent choice for a first capstone project. 

	The project outline begins with this very proposal. After review of the proposal with Vaughn, the course mentor, I will begin an initial foray into the data set and use some data wrangling techniques to fully comprehend the situation. Then I will conduct some factor analysis to see which days, times, weather patterns, and other variables contribute the most to usage. My current plan is to use PCA to learn this information, but may try other methods I learn from section 5 of the course. After applying the PCA we will try some predictive methods and time series analysis to see if we can correctly predict usage patterns for random weeks (I.e random weather patterns, holidays, etc) using testing and training sets. Finally, we will see if our results are reasonable, and can be predicted from a long enough time frame away that maintenance could be scheduled and executed at the planned times. Deliverables include the code used for solving the maintenance schedule, a report detailing the results, as well as a slide deck showcasing the approach, methodology, and findings from the project.
 
1.) Motivate, Motivate International, 2 Nov. 2016, www.motivateco.com/where-we-do-it/washington-dc/. 
